# Cancer Cell Detection
The goal of this project is to classify tumors as benign or malignant given the tumor's physical attributes. A more comprehensive report of the project is included [here.](Cancer_Cell_Classification_Paper.pdf)

There are 3 machine learning models stored in this repository. Our dataset is located in Cancer_Data.csv.

## Model training and testing
To train and test a model, open the Jupyter Notebook for the relevant model type and run all the cells in the notebook. This will start the entire training process for that model from scratch, including data import and cleaning, training, testing, and statistics collection.

Refer to the output of the cells to see information such as accuracy, mean square error, and the receiver operating characteristic curve.

## Classifying cancer cells
### Installation
Please check that you have all required dependencies:
- flask
- numpy
- pandas
- sklearn
- pickle
- matplotlib
- seaborn
- imblearn

### Instructions
- Make sure you are in the [frontend](./front-end) directory
- Run `app.py` by `py app.py` (on Windows) or `python app.py` (on Mac)
- If the server is successfully running, you will be able to access the frontend demo on [localhost:9999](http://localhost:9999) using web browser
- Once you open the web page, you have 2 options:
    #### 1. Uploading a file
    Follow the file format as [demo.csv](./demo.csv) with the exact same header followed by exactly one data row. Data input will be ignored if a file is uploaded. 

    #### 2. Manually inputting data
    An output can be generated by manually entering each attribute in the text fields. Ensure there is no file uploaded or the inputted data will be ignored.

## Relevant files for each model
### Logistic Regression 
- `Logistic-Regression.ipynb`: Jupyter Notebook for the Logistic Regression model
- `Logistic-Regression-Model`: A saved instance of a previously trained model

### Feed Forward Neural Network 
- `Neural-Network.ipynb`: Jupyter Notebook for the Feed-Forward Neural Network model
- `Neural-Network-Model`: A saved instance of a previously trained model

### Support Vector Machine 
- `Support-Vector-Machine.ipynb`: Jupyter Notebook for the Support Vector Machine model
- `Support-Vector-Machine-Model`: A saved instance of a previously trained model